= Creating The Reader Object =

 {{{$data = new Spreadsheet_Excel_Reader("test.xls");}}}

Or conserve memory for large worksheets by not storing the extended information about cells like fonts, colors, etc.

 {{{$data = new Spreadsheet_Excel_Reader("test.xls",false);}}}

To use a coding other than UTF-8 (default) you can pass it as the 3rd parameter.

 {{{$data = new Spreadsheet_Excel_Reader("test.xls",true,"UTF-16");}}}

= Dumping Worksheet Contents =

The simplest way to interact with an XLS file is to just dump it to HTML for display in a browser. This method will generate a table with inline CSS and all available formatting.

 {{{$data->dump($row_numbers=false,$col_letters=false,$sheet=0,$table_class='excel')}}}
 
= Accessing Cell Values =

It is recommended that the public API functions be used to access data rather than relying on the underlying data structure, which may change between releases.

Retrieve the formatted value of a cell (what is displayed by Excel) on the first (or only) worksheet:

 {{{$data->val($row,$col)}}}

You can also use column names rather than numbers:

 {{{$data->val(10,'AZ')}}}

Access data on a different sheet:

 {{{$data->val($row,$col,$sheet_index)}}}

= Sheet Info =

Get the count of how many rows/cols are on a sheet (default: first sheet):

 {{{$data->rowcount($sheet_index=0)}}}
 {{{$data->colcount($sheet_index=0)}}}
 
= Cell Info =
 
The type of data in the cell: number|date|unknown
 
 {{{$data->type($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
The raw data stored for the cell. For example, a cell may contain 123.456 but display as 123.5 because of the cell's format. Raw accesses the underlying value.
 
 {{{$data->raw($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}

If the cell has a hyperlink associated with it, the url can be retrieved.

 {{{$data->hyperlink($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
Rowspan/Colspan of the cell.
 
 {{{$data->rowspan($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 {{{$data->colspan($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
= Formatting Details =
 
The *style* method retrieves all available formatting information and returns a CSS string with all attributes.

 {{{$data->style($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
The format string for the cell.

 {{{$data->format($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
Cell alignment. Either 'right', 'center', or '' (left)

 {{{$data->align($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
Background color, in #FFFFFF format.

 {{{$data->bgColor($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}

Get border type for any of the cell's sides. Possible return values are:
  * Thin
  * Medium
  * Dashed
  * Dotted
  * Thick
  * Double
  * Hair
  * Medium dashed
  * Thin dash-dotted
  * Medium dash-dotted
  * Thin dash-dot-dotted
  * Medium dash-dot-dotted
  * Slanted medium dash-dotted

 {{{$data->borderLeft($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
 {{{$data->borderRight($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
 {{{$data->borderTop($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
 {{{$data->borderBottom($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
Get the color of each of the borders, in #FFFFFF format.

 {{{$data->borderLeftColor($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
 {{{$data->borderRightColor($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
 {{{$data->borderTopColor($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
 {{{$data->borderBottomColor($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}

The font color, which may be determined either by cell properties or by format properties, in #FFFFFF format.

 {{{$data->color($row,$col,$sheet=0)}}}
 
Other font properties:

 {{{$data->bold($row,$col,$sheet=0) // Boolean }}}
 
 {{{$data->italic($row,$col,$sheet=0) // Boolean }}}
 
 {{{$data->underline($row,$col,$sheet=0) // Boolean }}}
 
 {{{$data->height($row,$col,$sheet=0) // Number in pixels }}}
 
 {{{$data->font($row,$col,$sheet=0) // Font name }}}
 